Hi Luke,

I've had a chance to write up some comments for your paper. As I said
before, I'm sorry I couldn't be at your s-circle talk. I heard it was good
and generated good discussion!

I'm pasting the comments below. If you want to get together sometime to
chat about them, i would be totally willing. I would also be happy to read
a current try or parts of a draft of anything you're currently working on.

Take care!

Robert


Overall comments
----------------

I think the paper is overall really nice. You have a good collection of
data here, and the data are well-marshaled toward your analytical aims.
Also, your explanations of the game-theoretic calculations to determine
scope interpretations are really nice. I think, for me, there are a few
high level things that you should probably think about.

-- It would be really nice to have a deeper explanation for what makes a
transformation costless or not. I don't think this needs to be completely
solved, but some analytical intuitions about how to deal with this would
really help deliver your argument with a punch. Of the top I my head

-- Have you thought at all about other architectures? This is connected to
a point I raise down below about pg3. For instance, you could redo this
with bayesian signaling games where the hearer is trying to determine the
probability of message m given signal s (a conditional probability), while
the speaker is trying to choose a signal that maximizing the probability
that the hearer will recover it. Utility of choices is then just waited
against the probability that messages are recovered modified by costs. I
bringing up this up because it seems to more amendable to a talking about
tendencies as opposed to hard grammaticality, and you could even
experimentally predict how often listeners should predict an interpretation
given a form. We could talk more about it, but maybe you could raise this
as a possibility for future work as a way to fight against my critique
about pg3.

-- There are related scope effects that I wonder if you can address. For
instance, even in English which allows inverse scope, it is harder for
universals to take inverse scope over indefinites than vice versa: Every
man loves a women vs. A man loves every woman. Do you have an idea about
how to extend your system to other things that affect scope? Would you just
add more payoff penalties, etc.?

-- Syntactic scope and interpretation are different. For instance, a
logical form like "for all x [MAN(x) implies exists y[DOG(y) and
LOVE(x,y)]] has the surface scope **structure** but is consistent (i.e.,
true) in a scenarios where every man happens to love the same dog (which
might account for some of the effect in the previous point). I just think
it would be nice for you to maybe address this point somehow---that is, the
point that your (3b) doesn't like the indefinite taking scope over "every",
but that it can't even have an in-situ wide scope interpretation.

########

I also have some smaller comments, mostly about issues of presentation.

pg1

I wouldn't use "battle of the sexes" here. I don't think that speakers and
hearers are really in competition. It's that the interpretations are in
competition and the speakers are trying to maximize utility (a component of
which involves successful coordination). I might try to just rephrase this
without the metaphor and make it clear what's competing and to what end.

pg2

I might rephrase this paragraph about payoffs to make it clearer that what
you're doing is that you are encoding these assumption about scope into the
model from which you will then make a series of nice predictions. I'm just
worried uncharitable readers will look at sentences like:

"If transformations, specifically passives, are costly or dis-preferred in
some way, we can model them as saying that they reduce the payoff to the
speaker to some degree (−y)"

And saying, this doesn't model anything, but instead formalizing an
assumption. Just make it clear that these are starting assumptions from
which cool facts will be derived.

pg3

I am a bit skeptical of a hard grammatical constraint on inverse scope
readings in passives. I think all things being equal they are
dis-preferred, but you can make them good. Consider the fact that
appositives on indefinites privileged the singleton reading. If that is
true and if your constraint is hard, then the following should seem
ungrammatical, but it seems fine to me.

Every watermelon was eaten by a man, who sneaked into the picnic when we
weren't looking.

I would really like a theory that says inverse scope is not barred in these
scenarios, but the pays are such that they are strongly dis-preferred all
things being equal. What do you think?


-- 
Assistant Professor of Linguistics
University of Arizona
